Now let's learn more about the Snow Family.
Now this has nothing to do with Game of Thrones.
In fact,
we'll be looking at Snowball devices that lie within the AWS Snow Family.
There's a variety of different devices inside of the Snow
Family and includes devices that are currently operational and
ones that are retiring presently.
But just in case you hear their names come up on AWS
exams or when people bring them up, it might be useful to know about them.
First, there's the Snowball device.
Now this device is currently retiring,
but it was used to allow people to get a physical hardware appliance to get
sent to their own data centers and put a bunch of information onto the
physical appliance like a massive SD card or hard drive,
and then send that back to AWS in order to unload
it into AWS's storage solutions.
AWS has moved a little bit away from just using this Snowball device,
and they have a few other products that are a little more relevant now.
If you need to move a lot, a lot of data,
one of those products is called Snowmobile.
Now this is for when you need to move up to a 100 PB of storage.
That's a lot of storage.
And if you need to move that much or more,
you'd want to use this,
which essentially is a massive truck that you'll be
sending to your own data center, putting a bunch of data on it,
and sending it back to AWS.
It functions pretty similarly to a massive hard drive on wheels that
you ship back and forth between those two locations.
Now while they started phasing out Snowball devices,
they've recently included something called Snowball Edge,
which is kind of the next version of that.
With Snowball Edge,
they'll allow you to both send information on this physical
appliance using 50 to 80 TB of storage,
but they'll also give you the option to have this device
process things with the power of the AWS cloud.
So there's some ability to use the Snowball Edge device to actually
run jobs locally before it gets sent back to AWS.
Now let's take a look at all of these in a little bit more detail.
First,
let's look at Snowball Edge devices and get a little bit of
a better understanding of what they do.
They have both onboard compute capacity,
and they have the ability to mimic the EC2 and S3 endpoints that you
might use when you're working with the AWS cloud.
This allows you to set up virtual machines on these separate hardware
appliances without connecting directly to the AWS cloud.
And it also lets you send in objects like files,
images, and other objects like that to these physical appliances in
the same way you would to AWS. Now if you wanted to process some
data without these sorts of endpoints,
you could also use Lambda functions in a similar way to what
you might do in the cloud, except they're running inside of the
device that AWS is shipping you.
So let's look at a few examples of when we might use Snowball Edge. First,
we might decide to use Snowball Edge when we're
working with a lot of IoT sensors.
We might want to capture some streaming data from those sensors
on our local environment that might have a little bit more
difficulty connecting to the internet,
and we could process that local data using a Snowball Edge
device before we sent anything over to the cloud.
We might also want to set up Snowball Edge devices when we have
some sort of long distance travel that we're doing while we still
need to collect information from different types of devices in
whatever environment we're using.
This is a good example when we're doing things like shipping where we
might have a bunch of different information that needs to get collected
from devices, but we're on a boat in the middle of the ocean where there's
just not very good Wi‑Fi connectivity.
So in those cases,
we could connect local devices to a local network and set
them up to interact with Snowball Edge,
where we both collect the data and potentially process it
before it gets reconnected to the internet.
Now other cases that frequently involve these sorts of devices
are manufacturing when we might have a bunch of different
machines all doing things at the same time,
and we want them all interacting locally to make sure we can get the
most up‑to‑date information and have them interacting with the device
that's local inside of that manufacturing site,
both for speed and to make sure we don't have to send as much data
back and forth between our local site and the cloud.
Now there are plenty of other examples,
but a lot of them revolve around when there's poor connectivity. So
that long distance nautical travel with a ship in the middle of the
ocean is a pretty good example of this.
But there are plenty of other situations where this
might come up and be the case too.
So if you think about any of those situations, also keep in mind that Snowball Edge might be a good fit for them.